improve contribution guide (#1906)
questdb/questdb: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to QuestDB

Hi, glad to know that you're interested in contributing to QuestDB.
Here are some topics that can help you to get started:

- 💡 [Bugs and features](#bugs-and-features) 
- 🧭 [Navigation](#navigation)
- 🔧 [Environment setup](#environment-setup)
- ✅ [Before you submit](#before-you-submit)
- 📢 [For maintainers](#for-maintainers) 

# Bugs and features

> Whether it's a bug report or feature request, you're welcome to raise **[issues](https://github.com/questdb/questdb/issues)** using respective templates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether it's a bug report or feature request, you're welcome to raise an **[issue](https://github.com/questdb/questdb/issues)** using the respective template. 
```

If you're not sure whether you should raise an issue, you can also join our community **[Slack channel](https://slack.questdb.io/)** and post your questions there. 

> We aim to respond to your issues and questions soonest. If you wish to receive a faster response, we recommend you to always describe your steps and provide information about your environment in your bug reports. And if you're proposing a new feature, it'll help us to evaluate the priority if you explain why you need a specific feature. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We aim to respond to your issues and questions soonest. If you wish to receive a faster response, we recommend you always describe your steps and provide information about your environment in the bug reports. And if you're proposing a new feature, it'll help us to evaluate the priority if you explain why you need it.
```

Compiled binaries (for C libraries and Windows service wrapper) are committed to
git to make build of development process Java-centric and simplified.

> ## Find suitable Sissues 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Finding suitable issues
```

Our maintainers label issues with relevant categories so you can use that to search for certain type of issues you'd like to work on. 

> If you don't know where to start, try search for issues labeled with `good first issue` or `help wanted`. 

Reviewer: nit: might be a good idea to place links with filtered issues here.

If you wish to understand how our maintainers work together, you can refer to [this section](#for-maintainers).

# Environment setup

## Requirements

- Operating system - **x86-64**: Windows, Linux, FreeBSD and OSX
- Java 11 64-bit
- Maven 3 (from your package manager on Linux / OSX
  ([Homebrew](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew)) or
  [from the jar](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) for any OS)

> - Node.js 12 / npm 6 (to manage your Node.js versions we recommend

Reviewer: nit: I think it's already Node.js 16 and npm 7. @insmac should know for sure.

Reviewer 2: In my view our requirements should be:
`Node.js 16 / npm 8` (I would make `8` required as it's shipped with npm with the exception of FreeBSD which has these decoupled)

Compiled binaries (for C libraries and Windows service wrapper) are committed to
git to make build of development process Java-centric and simplified.

## Finding suitable issues

Our maintainers label issues with relevant categories so you can use that to
search for certain type of issues you'd like to work on. If you don't know where
to start, try search for issues labeled with
[`good first issue`](https://github.com/questdb/questdb/labels/Good%20first%20issue)
or [`help wanted`](https://github.com/questdb/questdb/labels/Help%20wanted). If
you wish to understand how our maintainers work together, you can refer to
[this section](#for-maintainers).

# Environment setup

## Requirements

- Operating system - **x86-64**: Windows, Linux, FreeBSD and OSX

> - Java 11 64-bit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Java 11 64-bit or later
```

- Maven 3 (from your package manager on Linux / OSX
  ([Homebrew](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew)) or
  [from the jar](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) for any OS)
- Node.js 16 / npm 8 (to manage your Node.js versions we recommend
  [`nvm`](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for OSX/Linux/windows WSL, and
  [`nvm-windows`](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows) for Windows) -
  _OPTIONAL_
- C-compiler, CMake - to contribute to C libraries - _OPTIONAL_

## Local environment

### Setting up Java and `JAVA_HOME`

> Java Home is required by Maven. It is possible to have multiple version of Java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`JAVA_HOME` is required by Maven. It is possible to have multiple versions of Java
```

> on the same platform. Please set up `JAVA_HOME` to point to Java 11. Other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the same platform. Please set up `JAVA_HOME` to point to Java 11 or later. Other
```

set JAVA_HOME="c:\path\to\java directory"
```

### Compiling Java and frontend code

> Compiling the database + the web console can be done with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can compile the database and build the web console with the following command:
```

> The web console will available at [localhost:9000](http://localhost:9000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web console will be available at [localhost:9000](http://localhost:9000).
```

java -p core/target/questdb-<version>-SNAPSHOT.jar -m io.questdb/io.questdb.ServerMain -d <root_dir>
```

The web console will be available at [localhost:9000](http://localhost:9000).

### Compiling C-libraries

C-libraries will have to be compiled for each platform separately. Cmake will
also need `JAVA_HOME` to be set. The following commands will compile on

> Linux/OSX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linux/OS X.
```

ui -> core/src/main/resources/io/questdb/site/public.zip
```

# Before you submit

## Testing

We have a lot of unit tests, most of which are of "integration" type, e.g. test
starts a server, interacts with it and asserts the outcome. We expect all
contributors to submit PRs with tests. Please reach out to us via slack if you're

> uncertain on how to test, or you think an existing test is inadequate and should be

Reviewer: nit: "could be improved" sounds nicer than "is inadequate and should be removed".
```suggestion
uncertain on how to test, or you think an existing test could be improved.
```

removed.

## Dependencies

> QuestDB does not have dependencies. This may sound unorthodox but in reality we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QuestDB does not have Java dependencies. This may sound unorthodox but in reality we
```

ui -> core/src/main/resources/io/questdb/site/public.zip
```

# Before you submit

## Testing

> We have a lot of unit tests, most of which are of "integration" type, e.g. test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a lot of tests, most of which are of "integration" type, e.g. test
```

starts a server, interacts with it and asserts the outcome. We expect all

> contributors to submit PRs with tests. Please reach out to us via slack if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contributors to submit PRs with tests. Please reach out to us via Slack if
```

### How can I easily manage the `Node.js` installation?

> You can use [`nvm`](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for OSX/Linux/windows WSL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [`nvm`](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for OS X/Linux/Windows WSL,
```
